This is a step-by-step beginner's guide to setting up a server and installing Ubuntu on Google Cloud. I will assume you have no prior knowledge or experience in this area, and I will guide you through each step to help you successfully create a server running Ubuntu on Google Cloud.

Step 1: Sign up for Google Cloud

    Visit the Google Cloud website at https://cloud.google.com/.
    Click on the "Get started for free" button.
    If you already have a Google account, sign in. If not, create a new Google account.
    Fill in the required details, such as your name, address, and credit card information. Google offers a free trial with $300 in credit for new users. Your credit card will not be charged unless you manually upgrade to a paid account.

Step 2: Create a new project

    After signing up, you'll be redirected to the Google Cloud Console (https://console.cloud.google.com/).
    In the top navigation bar, click on the project dropdown menu and then click on the "New Project" button.
    Give your project a name and click on the "Create" button.

Step 3: Enable the Compute Engine API

    In the Google Cloud Console, click on the hamburger menu (three horizontal lines) in the top left corner.
    Click on "APIs & Services" and then "Dashboard."
    Click on the "Enable APIs and Services" button at the top of the page.
    Search for "Compute Engine API" in the search bar.
    Click on the "Compute Engine API" result, and then click on the "Enable" button.

Step 4: Create a virtual machine instance

    In the Google Cloud Console, click on the hamburger menu in the top left corner.
    Click on "Compute Engine" and then "VM instances."
    Click on the "Create" button to create a new virtual machine instance.
    Fill in the following details:
        Name: Give your instance a name.
        Region and Zone: Select a region and zone for your instance. It's generally best to choose a location close to your target audience to reduce latency.
        Machine Configuration:
            Machine family: Choose "General-purpose."
            Series: Choose "N1."
            Machine type: Select a machine type based on your needs. For a basic server, "n1-standard-1" should suffice.
        Boot disk: Click on "Change" to select an operating system.
            In the "Operating System" tab, choose "Ubuntu."
            In the "Version" tab, choose the latest LTS (Long Term Support) version, such as "Ubuntu 20.04 LTS."
            Click on the "Select" button to confirm your choice.
        Firewall: Check the boxes for "Allow HTTP traffic" and "Allow HTTPS traffic" if you plan to host a website on this server.
    Click on the "Create" button at the bottom of the page to create your virtual machine instance.

Step 5: Connect to your virtual machine

    Once your virtual machine is created, you'll see it listed under "VM instances."
    Click on the "SSH" button next to your instance to open a new browser window with an SSH connection to your virtual machine.
    You are now connected to your virtual machine running Ubuntu on Google Cloud.

Step 6: Update and upgrade your system

    In the SSH window, run the following command to update the package list:

sql

sudo apt-get update

    Next, run this command to upgrade installed packages to their latest versions:

arduino

sudo apt-get upgrade

Youhave now successfully set up a server and installed Ubuntu on Google Cloud. Your server is now ready for further configuration and software installations based on your specific needs.

Step 7: Basic security configuration (optional)

    It's recommended to create a new user for daily tasks and disable the root user login:

sudo adduser newuser

Replace "newuser" with your desired username. You will be prompted to enter a password and some optional user information.

    Grant administrative privileges to the new user:

sudo usermod -aG sudo newuser

    Test the new user by switching to the new account:

su - newuser

Enter the password when prompted.

    Update the SSH configuration to disable root login. Open the SSH configuration file using a text editor such as nano:

bash

sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config

    Find the line that says:

bash

#PermitRootLogin prohibit-password

Uncomment the line by removing the '#' at the beginning and change "prohibit-password" to "no":

perl

PermitRootLogin no

    Save the file and exit the text editor (in nano, press 'Ctrl' + 'X', then 'Y', then 'Enter').

    Restart the SSH service to apply the changes:

sudo systemctl restart ssh

Step 8: Set up a basic firewall (optional)

    Install the Uncomplicated Firewall (UFW) package:

arduino

sudo apt-get install ufw

    Configure the firewall to allow necessary connections:

sudo ufw allow ssh
sudo ufw allow http
sudo ufw allow https

    Enable the firewall:

bash

sudo ufw enable

    Check the firewall status:

lua

sudo ufw status

Your server now has a basic security configuration in place.

Step 9: Install additional software (optional)

Depending on your needs, you may want to install additional software, such as web servers (e.g., Apache or Nginx), databases (e.g., MySQL or PostgreSQL), or programming languages (e.g., PHP, Python, or Node.js). Consult the official documentation for each software package for detailed installation instructions.

Congratulations! You have set up a server running Ubuntu on Google Cloud and performed some basic security configurations. Your server is now ready for you to customize and use as needed.
